# 2015-2019-Maryland-Family-Income-Change-and-Public-School-Enrollment
## Introduction
Income is the basis of people's livelihood and influences different aspects in citizens’ life. Education, which brings knowledge and awareness of the world, and develops our perspective of looking at life, is one of the most important aspects in citizen happiness. Therefore, looking at how school enrollment changes with family income in different years allows us to have better understanding to the influence of family income in citizens’ life. In this project, family income change and family income range change in Maryland and 10 counties with most population are studied. In order to investigate the influence of family income in Maryland basic education, change of public-school enrollment, and correlation between enrollment data of four different grade ranges i.e. pre-kindergarten to kindergarten (PreK-K), kindergarten to grade 5 (K-5), grade 6 to grade 8 (6-8), and grade 9 to grade 12 (9-12) and family income are calculated.  
The results showed that from 2014 to 2018, median and mean family income in Maryland and 10 counties in Maryland with the most population increased. Income difference among counties in Maryland fluctuates in these five years, ranges from 68,000 to 81,000. Public school enrollment of four grade levels only slightly changes in five years, and have poor correlation to family income. 
## Questions & Aims
Family income influences many aspects of citizens’ life, one of which is education. Education for juveniles provides them with basic survival skills in society and knowledge of literature, mathematics, physics, chemistry, etc. Family can influence the education of the children, and education also influence the children’s future families. Therefore, the closed loop of education-family-income is vital for the country and is important for every of us to be aware of.  
The major question that this project tried to solve is how family income potentially relate to public school enrollment. This project served as a preliminary phase of looking into the impact of family income in citizens’ life. Although family income is not the only factor that change school enrollment, observation result of this project can show how enrollment changes as family income, and be used in building the model of school enrollment. Two aims of this project are:  
1. Investigate 2014-2018 family income and distribution change in Maryland.
2. Study correlation between family income and public-school enrollment.
## Data decision
### Aim 1: Investigate 2014-2018 family income and distribution change in Maryland _Italic_
To study family income change in Maryland from 2014 to 2018, median and mean family income data from 2014 to 2018 in Maryland was acquired from [US Census Bureau](https://data.census.gov/cedsci/). In this data, distribution in different income ranges were also included, therefore these data were also visualized to better analyze the income structure in Maryland.  
Family income in 10 counties in Maryland with highest population were also visualized. To pick out these 10 counties, Maryland population estimation from 2014 to 2018 were acquired from [Maryland State Open Data](https://opendata.maryland.gov/). Median income data of Maryland counties were acquired from the same data source. 
### Aim 2: Study correlation between family income and public-school enrollment _Italic_
Before studying the correlation, public school enrollment change of different grade levels were investigated using data obtained from [Maryland State Open Data](https://opendata.maryland.gov/). After analyzing the trend of public-school enrollment, the correlation coefficient of enrollment count and family income is calculated. 
## Data analysis result

